#summary API design issues
#labels Phase-Design

== General Issues ==

  * does nvtt have state? should we have a context? Don't use globals/statics.

== !InputOptions ==

  * Default mipmap filter should be Box instead of Kaiser.

=== Alpha transparency ===

  * `alphaTransparency` should not be specified in setFormat.
  * Add `setAlphaMode(AlphaMode mode)`

Where `AlphaMode` could be:
  * AlphaMode_None
  * AlphaMode_Transparency
  * AlphaMode_Premultiplied

None is the default (treats alpha as a regular channel) while Transparency and Premultiplied are hints. Currently there are some compressors that only support None, others that only support Transparency.

=== Mipmapping options ===

Option 1:

  * Deprecate setMipmapping.
  * Add `setMipmapFilter(MipmapFilter filter)`
  * Add maxLevel argument to `setTextureLayout`
  * To disable mipmap output set maxLevel = 0.

Option 2:

  * Deprecate setMipmapping.
  * Add `setMipmapFilter(MipmapFilter filter)`
  * Add `enableMipmaps(bool enable)`
  * Add `setMipmapMaxLevel(int maxLevel)`

Option 3:

  * Add `setMipmapFilter(MipmapFilter filter)`
  * Remove filter argument from `setMipmapping`: `setMipmapping(bool enabled, int maxLevel)`

Option 4:

  * Leave things as is.


== !CompressionOptions ==

  * `enableHardwareCompressor`, should be called `enableGpuCompressor`
  * `Quantization` should be a compression option.
  * remove error threshold from setQuality, it's not used.

== !OutputOptions ==

  * Should be a pimpl like `InputOptions` and `CompressionOptions`. Member attributes should be hidden.

  * Add `setFileName()` member to output dds file directly instead of using output handler.

=== Output Handling ===

  * `OutputHandler::writeData` should return false to signal a write error and stop processing.
  * The `mipmap` method of `OutputHandler` should have been called `image` or `beginImage`.


=== Error Handling ===

  * Error_Unknown should be 0
  * Error_UserInterruption is not being used and could be removed.
