#summary Instructions to compile NVTT on different platforms
#labels Documentation

== Contents ==

  * [CompilationInstructions#Prerequisites Prerequisites]
  * [CompilationInstructions#Windows Windows]
    * [CompilationInstructions#Visual_Studio_8 Visual Studio 8]
    * [CompilationInstructions#CMake_and_Visual_Studio_7 CMake and Visual Studio 7]
    * [CompilationInstructions#CMake_and_Visual_Studio_8 CMake and Visual Studio 8]
  * [CompilationInstructions#Linux Linux]
  * [CompilationInstructions#Mac_OSX Mac OSX]


== Prerequisites ==

Project files are provided for Visual Studio 8. For all other platforms and targets you will need to install CMake. You can download it from:

http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html

In order to compile the CUDA accelerated compressors you need to install CUDA:

http://www.nvidia.com/object/cuda_get.html

Note that CUDA is not free software and is not supported on all platforms.

In addition to that, the command line tools also need the following libraries:

 * libpng
 * libjpeg
 * ...

Note that the sources already include these libraries precompiled for 32 bit windows.


== Windows ==

=== Visual Studio 8 ===

Simply open the solution file:

`projects/vc8/nvtt.sln`

and build all (Ctrl + Shift + B).


=== CMake and Visual Studio 7 ===

Run the following commands:

{{{
$ mkdir vc7
$ cd vc7
$ cmake .. -DNVTT_SHARED=1 -G "Visual Studio 7 2003 .NET"
}}}

open the generated solution file:

`vc7/NV.sln`

and build all (Ctrl + Shift + B).


=== CMake and Visual Studio 8 ===

Run the following commands:

{{{
$ mkdir vc8
$ cd vc8
$ cmake .. -DNVTT_SHARED=1 -G "Visual Studio 8 2005"
}}}

open the generated solution file:

`vc8/NV.sln`

and build all (Ctrl + Shift + B).


=== CMake + MinGW ===

Note that CUDA does not currently support the MinGW compiler. This target is not supported yet, but may work if CUDA is not enabled.


== Linux ==

If you are running Debian or Ubuntu you can install the required libraries as follows:

`sudo apt-get install ...`

On other distributions you will have to use the corresponding package manager.

Then compile and install the sources as follows:

{{{
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
}}}


== Mac OSX ==

Install the required libraries as follows:

`$ sudo port install ...`

Then compile and install the sources as follows:

{{{
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
}}}
