#summary Projects using the NVIDIA Texture Tools.
#labels Featured

The [http://developer.nvidia.com/object/texture_tools.html NVIDIA Texture Tools] are being used by game development studios, indie game developers, hobbyist and students. Below are brief descriptions of some of the projects that use the NVIDIA Texture Tools. If you know about any other project or studio that's using them and is not listed here, please [http://groups.google.com/group/nvidia-texture-tools let us know]!

----

  * [http://www.unrealtechnology.com/technology.php Unreal速 Engine 3], _Epic Games Inc._

  Unreal速 Engine 3 is a complete development framework for DirectX 10-equipped PCs, Xbox 360速 and PLAYSTATION速3, providing the vast array of core technologies, content creation tools, and support infrastructure required by top game studios, advanced visualization and simulation developers and creators of 3D animated content for linear productions.

  * [http://forum.celestialmatters.org/viewtopic.php?t=273 F-TexTools 2.0 / NmTools 2.0], _Fridger Schrempp, Robert Skuridin_

  Cross-platform tools optimized for accurate processing of huge scientific imaging data on regular computers, and generate textures that can be visualized in [http://www.shatters.net/celestia/ Celestia], a free space simulation that lets you explore our universe in three dimensions.

  * [http://www.blender.org Blender], _Amorilia_ 

  Blender is an open source, cross platform suite of tools for 3D creation. Since [http://www.blender.org/development/release-logs/blender-246/ version 2.46] Blender supports loading of DDS textures by using the NVIDIA Texture Tool's source code.

  * [http://www.wolfire.com/overgrowth Overgrowth], _[http://www.wolfire.com/overgrowth Wolfire Games]_

  Overgrowth is a 3d action-adventure game for Mac, Windows, and Linux, coming soon from the independent game studio, Wolfire Games.

  * [http://rigsofrods.com/ Rigs Of Rods], _Pierre-Michel Ricordel_

  Rigs of Rods (also known as RoR), is a truck, car, airplane and boat simulator.

