#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

The NVIDIA Texture Tools use several third party libraries. Note that the NVTT library does not use any of these libraries, the libraries are only used by the command line tools.

= zlib =

{{{
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library
  version 1.2.3, July 18th, 2005

  Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu


  The data format used by the zlib library is described by RFCs (Request for
  Comments) 1950 to 1952 in the files http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1950.txt
  (zlib format), rfc1951.txt (deflate format) and rfc1952.txt (gzip format).
*/
}}}


= libtiff =

{{{
/*
 * Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
 * Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
 * that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
 * all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
 * Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
 * publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
 * permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
 * 
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
 * EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
 * WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
 * 
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
 * ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
 * OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
 * WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
 * LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
 * OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 */
}}}

= libpng =

{{{
/*
 * libpng version 1.2.8 - December 3, 2004
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2004 Glenn Randers-Pehrson
 * (Version 0.96 Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger)
 * (Version 0.88 Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.)
 *
 * libpng versions 1.2.6, August 15, 2004, through 1.2.8, December 3, 2004, are
 * Copyright (c) 2004 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 * distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.2.5
 * with the following individual added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 *
 *    Cosmin Truta
 *
 * libpng versions 1.0.7, July 1, 2000, through 1.2.5, October 3, 2002, are
 * Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 * distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.0.6
 * with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 *
 *    Simon-Pierre Cadieux
 *    Eric S. Raymond
 *    Gilles Vollant
 *
 * and with the following additions to the disclaimer:
 *
 *    There is no warranty against interference with your enjoyment of the
 *    library or against infringement.  There is no warranty that our
 *    efforts or the library will fulfill any of your particular purposes
 *    or needs.  This library is provided with all faults, and the entire
 *    risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with
 *    the user.
 *
 * libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.6, March 20, 2000, are
 * Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 * distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.96,
 * with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 *
 *    Tom Lane
 *    Glenn Randers-Pehrson
 *    Willem van Schaik
 *
 * libpng versions 0.89, June 1996, through 0.96, May 1997, are
 * Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger
 * Distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.88,
 * with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 *
 *    John Bowler
 *    Kevin Bracey
 *    Sam Bushell
 *    Magnus Holmgren
 *    Greg Roelofs
 *    Tom Tanner
 *
 * libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.88, January 1996, are
 * Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.
 *
 * For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"
 * is defined as the following set of individuals:
 *
 *    Andreas Dilger
 *    Dave Martindale
 *    Guy Eric Schalnat
 *    Paul Schmidt
 *    Tim Wegner
 *
 * The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors
 * and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,
 * including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of
 * fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.
 * assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,
 * or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG
 * Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
 * source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject
 * to the following restrictions:
 *
 * 1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.
 *
 * 2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and
 * must not be misrepresented as being the original source.
 *
 * 3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from
 *    any source or altered source distribution.
 *
 * The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without
 * fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to
 * supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this
 * source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be
 * appreciated.
 */
}}}

= libjpeg =

{{{
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,
its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (C) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these
conditions:
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this
README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice
unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files
must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of
the Independent JPEG Group".
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,
not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to
acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name
in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from
it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's
software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of
commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
assumed by the product vendor.
}}}

